The next we're going to discuss IP address setting in a bit more detail into
Begin that discussion
We were going to talk a little more depth about what some of that content is included in the IP pocket headers
So where we're headed with the IP address thing is after we introduced a bit more detail in the iip had her information
When you talk about IP fragmentation
and then we're going to talk about for ipv4, how addressing works at particularly a couple more sophisticated addressing mechanisms specifically
classless entered interdomain routing Cedar as well as Network address translation
So the IP packet header we've seen this before
but it looks like this
there's some Heather information and then there's also a payload
So
what's included in this Header
Information would include things like the version of Ip being used to sit before me
sex
at cetera
with the length of the header is
as well as types of service
So what are some of those things mean
So the version number would be encoded with four bits and it would indicate what version of the IP protocols being used
So this would be necessary to know what other fields to expect
Cuz it could change
So typically it's still ipv4
But increasingly IPv6 going to talk about why things would move to IPv6
Eventually they had her
Length would include how many 32-bit words are in the header
It would typically be 5, which should correspond to 20 byte
ipv4 header
It could be
More when various IP options are used as though
the type of service
then is eight bits in the header and it would allow packets to be treated differently based on what needs are
So
for example
maybe they're slow delay for audio high bandwidth for a bulk transfer
another type type of service criteria
that may be useful for routers to know
along the way as well as for a destination node
That's receiving information
So if your other pieces have been the total length corresponding to how big the payload is some additional information for whether the tea packet has been fragmented
And we're going to talk in more depth about that shortly
And then
of course
some of the other critical information like what the source IP addresses that we talked about previously
or with the destination IP address is